Add documentation for the ingress-to-route controller (#23842)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ingress-creating-a-route-via-an-ingress.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/routes/route-configuration.adoc

[id="nw-ingress-creating-a-route-via-an-ingress_{context}"]
= Creating a route through an Ingress object

Some ecosystem components have an integration with Ingress resources but not with
route resources. To cover this case, {product-title} automatically creates
managed route objects when an Ingress object is created. These route objects are deleted
when the corresponding Ingress objects are deleted.

.Procedure

. Define an Ingress object in the {product-title} console or by entering the oc `create` command:
+
.YAML Definition of an Ingress
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: frontend
  annotations:
    route.openshift.io/termination: "reencrypt" <1>
spec:
  rules:
  - host: www.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: frontend
          servicePort: 443
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - www.example.com
    secretName: example-com-tls-certificate
----
+
<1> The `route.openshift.io/termination` annotation can be used to configure the `spec.tls.termination` field of the `Route`

> as `Ingress` has no field for this. The accepted values are `edge`, `passthrough` and `reencrypt`. All

Reviewer: IMO,  we  should also include one more line similar or close to, "Unlike route object, "reencrypt" ingress termination type requires service serving certificates for the backend instead of `"caCertificate"` and `"destinationCACertificate"` certs"

Author: You mean _like_ route objects?

Reviewer: What I meant is, in a simpler way, *Unlike* `route` objects, ingress objects with "reencrypt" termination type will work only with service serving certificates for the backend SSL connections.

Author: Thats not true. If the backend has a TLS cert that is trusted by something in the ingress-controllers global cert store, its not required.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, @quarterpin! Looks like we're all set to merge. If so, I'll go ahead and merge first thing in the morning.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * ingress/routes.adoc

Reviewer 2: s/* ingress/routes.adoc/* networking/routes/route-configuration.adoc

[id="nw-ingress-creating-a-route-via-an-ingress_{context}"]

> = Creating a Route via an Ingress

Reviewer 2: s/Creating a Route via an Ingress/Creating a route through an Ingress object

Does this change make sense in context? The IBM style guide advises against using "via": "Use this term, which means 'by way of', to refer to routing data, such as in 'Messages are routed via
SMTP.' In other situations, try to replace 'via' with one of the following synonyms: 'across', 'along', 'by', 'from', 'on', or 'through'."

Author: `by way of` is pretty much what I mean, but metaphorically, not literally. `Through` sounds good as well.

I've changed it to `through`. Since I am not a native speaker I am probably not the best candidate to find the best wording for this :upside_down_face:

> Some ecosystem components have an integration with Ingress resources but not with

Reviewer 2: s/Route/route (throughout assembly - we have it capitalized in the glossary, but throughout the documentation it's mostly lower case. So I'm suggesting that we change it to lower case for consistency.)

> Some ecosystem components have an integration with Ingress resources but not with
> Route resources. To cover for this case, Openshift will automatically create
> managed Route object(s) when an Ingress is created. These Route objects are deleted
> upon deletion of the corresponding Ingress.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some ecosystem components have an integration with Ingress resources but not with
￼Route resources. To cover this use case, {product-title} automatically creates
￼managed Route objects when an Ingress object is created. These Route objects are deleted
￼when the corresponding Ingress objects are deleted.
```

.Procedure

> Define an Ingress object:

Reviewer 2: Could we add something along the lines of:

. Define an Ingress object in the {product-title} console or by entering the `oc create` command:

+
.YAML Definition of an Ingress
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
```
Sorry, I missed this before.  Kubernetes 1.18 deprecated using the ingress resource from the extensions/v1beta API group.

kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: frontend
  annotations:
    route.openshift.io/termination: "reencrypt" <1>
spec:
  rules:
  - host: www.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: frontend
          servicePort: 443
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - www.example.com
    secretName: example-com-tls-certificate
----
+

> 

Reviewer 2: Delete line break between the + and <1>:
e.g.,  s/
+

<1>
/
+
<1>

> <1> The `route.openshift.io/termination` annotation can be used to configure the `termination` of the `Route`
> as `Ingress` has no property for this. The accepted values are `edge`, `passthrough` and `reencrypt`. All
> other values will be silently ignored. When unset, `edge` will be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The `route.openshift.io/termination` annotation can be used to configure the `spec.tls.termination` field of the `Route`
as `Ingress` has no field for this. The accepted values are `edge`, `passthrough` and `reencrypt`. All
other values are silently ignored. When unset, `edge` is used.
```

> Apply it to your cluster:

Reviewer 2: s/Apply it to your cluster:/

+

> ----

Reviewer 2: Add [source,terminal] before the code block (this is a newer style change throughout the docs).

e.g.

. Apply the YAML file to your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
...
```suggestion
----
```

$ oc apply -f ingress.yaml
----
+

> List your routes:

Reviewer 2: s/List your routes:/. List your routes:

+

> ----

Reviewer 2: Add [source,terminal] before the code block

$ oc get routes
----
+

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove break between + and "The result..."

The result includes an autogenerated route whose name starts with `frontend-`:
+

> ----

Reviewer 2: Add [source,terminal] before the code block

NAME             HOST/PORT         PATH    SERVICES    PORT    TERMINATION          WILDCARD

> frontend-gnztq   www.example.com           frontend    443     reencrypt/Redirect   None

Reviewer 3: The yaml for the ingress specified `route.openshift.io/termination: "edge"`, so the termination here should be `edge/Redirect`, right?  Or maybe it would be better to change the example to specify `route.openshift.io/termination: "redirect"`.

----
+

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove break after +

> If you inspect this Route, it looks this:

Reviewer 2: s/If you inspect this Route/If you inspect the route

+
.YAML Definition of an autogenerated Route
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: frontend-gnztq
  ownerReferences:

>   - apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
```
Did you get this from an old version of OpenShift?  The API should be using the new API group.

Author: No, a current 4.5. I guess kubectl defaults to the `extensions` group still (probably because `e` comes before `n`)

    controller: true
    kind: Ingress
    name: frontend
    uid: 4e6c59cc-704d-4f44-b390-617d879033b6
spec:
  host: www.example.com
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: frontend
  tls:
    certificate: |
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      [...]
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      [...]
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----

>     termination: edge

Reviewer 3: Here the example route yaml matches the example ingress yaml but not the example `oc get routes` output.  If you change the ingress yaml (as opposed to changing the `oc get routes` example output), remember to change the route yaml.

----

> +

Reviewer 2: Remove +
